<HTML>
<HEAD>
<META HTTP-EQUIV="Content-Type" CONTENT="text/html; charset=windows-1252">
<META NAME="Generator" CONTENT="Microsoft Word 97">
<TITLE>OT2000 wrap-up and OT2001 kick-off meeting 27/04/00</TITLE>
<META NAME="Template" CONTENT="C:\PROGRAM FILES\MSOFFICE\OFFICE\html.dot">
</HEAD>
<BODY LINK="#0000ff" VLINK="#800080">

<B><FONT FACE="Arial" SIZE=4><P ALIGN="CENTER">OT2000 wrap-up and OT2001 kick-off meeting</P>
</B></FONT><I><FONT SIZE=1><P>Actions are in bold. General actions are for Paul and Andy to take care of. Specific actions have the responsible person indicated. All points are up for debate but questions are there specifically to be answered</I>.</P>
</FONT><B><FONT FACE="Arial" SIZE=4><P>Attendance</P>
</B></FONT><FONT SIZE=1><P>Chris Boon</P>
<P>Jane Chandler</P>
<P>Andy Moorley</P>
<P>Alan Wills</P>
<P>Martine Devos</P>
<P>Kevlin Henney</P>
<P>David Harvey</P>
<P>Ewan Milne</P>
<P>John Nolan</P>
<P>Steve Freeman</P>
<P>Peter Marks</P>
</FONT><B><FONT FACE="Arial" SIZE=4><P>OT2000 wrap-up</P>
</FONT><I><FONT FACE="Arial" SIZE=2><P>General feedback stats</P>

<UL>
</B></I></FONT><FONT SIZE=1><LI>No significant change (from ’99) in most ratings except how useful and how enjoyable homegroups were (up 0.5) </LI>
<LI>Was BOF attendance down? First year of collecting stats – average was that each person attended less than one BOF. </LI>
<B><LI>Need ‘how useful’ and ‘how enjoyable’ ratings for BOFs</LI></UL>

</FONT><I><FONT FACE="Arial" SIZE=2><P>General feedback comments</P>

<UL>
</B></I></FONT><FONT SIZE=1><LI>Very cold </LI>

<UL>
<B><LI>Get Christchurch to turn on main heating week before we arrive </LI>
<LI>Turn on heaters in rooms on Saturday before conference </LI>
<LI>Stress the fact this is student accommodation in brochure</LI></UL>

</B><LI>More complaints about accommodation </LI>

<UL>
<B><LI>Maximise use of Meadows </LI>
<LI>Minimise use of Blue Boar </LI>
<LI>Re-budget to take account of more expensive en-suite Meadows accommodation</LI></UL>

</B><LI>No downtime </LI>

<UL>
<LI>Tough, this is a challenging, intense conference.</LI></UL>

<LI>Food rating going down wrt previous years </LI>

<UL>
<B><LI>Ensure new organizers pressure Christchurch about quality of food</LI></UL>

<LI>Need to expand on Sunday activities for people not in working groups – </B>treasure hunt a possibility? </LI>
<LI>Helpers were a bit pushy in rushing people into sessions. Over-enthusiasm to have the conference ‘run like clockwork’? </LI>

<UL>
<B><LI>Paul to brief helpers before conference</LI></UL>

</B><LI>Badge timetable worked but a bit clumsy </LI>

<UL>
<B><LI>Produce badge as a folded card with one day per page</LI></UL>

</B><LI>Not many people take advantage of early booking rate because the deadline is before the session acceptance deadline and potential session leaders don’t know if they’ve been accepted yet. </LI>

<UL>
<B><LI>Move early bird deadline to 1<SUP>st</SUP> December</LI></UL>

</B><LI>17 session leaders took advantage of free one-day pass to give their session. This runs contrary to the ‘no gurus’ philosophy. </LI>

<UL>
<B><LI>Actively encourage all session leaders to participate in the whole conference </LI>
<LI>Abolish speaker day rate</LI></UL>

</B><LI>Sunday reception was a big hit </LI>

<UL>
<B><LI>Do it again!</LI></UL>

</B><LI>Modern Book Company feel they aren’t getting good value for money </LI>

<UL>
<LI>Abolish fee if they give 10% discount on all their books? </LI>
<B><LI>Give them list of good books to bring </LI>
<LI>Ask session leaders to give a list of recommended reading for their session </LI>
</B><LI>Invite Blackwells instead?</LI></UL>

<LI>Still have references to ‘Object Technology’ rather than ‘OT’ </LI>

<UL>
<B><LI>Organisers to work with Christ Church and Exam school to ‘rebrand’</LI></UL>

</B><LI>Catering was still poor (especially in Christ Church) </LI>

<UL>
<B><LI>More food in Exam School – </B>croissants and bagels in the morning?</LI></UL>
</UL>

</FONT><B><I><FONT FACE="Arial" SIZE=2><P>Session feedback</P>

<UL>
</B></I></FONT><FONT SIZE=1><LI>Most of the lowest scored sessions were known in advance to be likely to be poor </LI>

<UL>
<B><LI>Strengthen the shepherding process (see below)</LI></UL>

</B><LI>‘How much I learnt’ scores lower for less ‘factual’ sessions. </LI>

<UL>
<B><LI>Encourage session leaders of more exploratory sessions to provide closure through reflection, actions for work, etc.</LI></UL>

</B><LI>Good feedback on Working Groups (all appeared in top three sessions). </LI>

<UL>
<B><LI>Retain ‘exclusivity’ based on attendance by application </LI>
<LI>Run in Chaplency with lunch again</LI></UL>

</B><LI>Comments that some workshops were too long. </LI>

<UL>
<B><LI>Ensure that we have more shorter-length sessions up against workshops </LI>
<LI>Allow ½-length workshops</LI></UL>

</B><LI>Six streams too many? Spreads attendees too thinly, particularly if there is a particularly popular session </LI>

<UL>
<B><LI>Only have 5 streams if we have similar attendance level (137) </LI>
<LI>Keep 6 streams if we have 160+ attendees</LI></UL>

</B><LI>Sessions over-running. </LI>

<UL>
<B><LI>Stress double-length sessions are 150, not 180 minutes (30 min break) </LI>
<LI>Have helpers do time-keeping</LI></UL>

</B><LI>Mixed feelings on collaborative keynote. High Standard Deviation indicates a controversial session, backed up by passionate comments both in favour and opposed to the session. </LI>

<UL>
<B><LI>Don’t run it again in the same format </LI>
<LI>Take lessons learned (e.g. value of determining a position or an outcome collaboratively, importance of making determined stance to do something about the state and future of the software industry) and apply them in all aspects of the conference.</LI></UL>
</UL>

</FONT><FONT FACE="Arial" SIZE=4><P>OT2001 kick-off</P>
</FONT><I><FONT FACE="Arial" SIZE=2><P>Organisers</P>

<UL>
</B></I></FONT><FONT SIZE=1><LI>IEE preferred but query against their management charge structure and how it affects their input to the conference </LI>

<UL>
<B><LI>Paul and Jane to talk to IEE asap </LI>
<LI>BCS give reasonable fall-back position</LI></UL>

</B><LI>Use OT wiki-web to capture OT organisation process to use with new organizers </LI>

<UL>
<B><LI>Alan to set up wiki next week (David to send source code) </LI>
<LI>Jane to drive the capturing of the process</LI></UL>

</B><LI>Set targets of 160 – 180 delegates, 3 full sponsors.</LI></UL>

</FONT><B><I><FONT FACE="Arial" SIZE=2><P>Widen and strengthen CfP</P>

<UL>
</I></FONT><FONT SIZE=1><LI>Invite people who’ve previously run good sessions, that don’t regularly come, to re-run or update their sessions. Needs to be selective to ensure sessions are still relevant. </LI>
</B><LI>Widen call to less technical areas of software practice, e.g. organizational change and process management. Talk to people like Colston Sanger, Tom Gilb, Suzanne Robertson, Tom De Marco, Larry Constantine, James Hysmith. </LI>

<UL>
<B><LI>David to take responsibility for contacting these people to see if they are interested in running sessions or know people in their field who would be.</LI></UL>

</B><LI>Need to find suitable keynote speakers or else scrap keynote slot </LI>

<UL>
<B><LI>John Nolan to contact James Dyson and Stuart Brand </LI>
<LI>David to talk to above list and to identify suitably techie alternative </LI>
</B><LI>Chris Alexander???</LI></UL>
</UL>

</FONT><B><I><FONT FACE="Arial" SIZE=2><P>Submissions, deliverables and session output</P>

<UL>
</I></FONT><FONT SIZE=1><LI>Have a submission form tailored to each session type in order to get more of the most relevant information </LI>
<LI>Allow submissions for all session types to be either 75 or 150 mins. Give guidelines about the most suitable lengths and require justification when the guidelines aren’t being followed. </LI>
<LI>Have a list of deliverable tailored to each session type and have organizers really push to get the materials in </LI>
</B><LI>Really need to get to grips with producing session output, both for the conference and for the web. Need output from session leader from participants and from ‘observer’ </LI>

<UL>
<LI>Shepherd to ensure output from session leader as part of post-conference debrief? </LI>
<LI>Commentary and context supplied by room manager? This implies the need for room managers to be more than just helpers – actively recruit people doing relative work from universities. Have more than bare minimum room managers to ensure people can go to sessions that are relevant and interesting for them. </LI>
<B><LI>Group output to be captured by helper and session leader and displayed.</LI></UL>
</UL>

</FONT><I><FONT FACE="Arial" SIZE=2><P>Shepherding</P>

<UL>
</I></FONT><FONT SIZE=1><LI>Capture best practice in terms of the way to run sessions of each type on the OT wiki </LI>
<LI>Concentrate efforts on (assign most experienced shepherds to) ‘novice’ session leaders </LI>
<LI>Assess shepherding effort required in programme review meeting </LI>
</B><LI>Make clearer the objectives and process for shepherding </LI>

<UL>
<B><LI>Review and re-write objectives and process documents</LI></UL>

<LI>Continue shepherding process after the conference – minimize post-conference interaction</LI></UL>

</FONT><I><FONT FACE="Arial" SIZE=2><P>Exhibition and sponsors</P>

<UL>
</B></I></FONT><FONT SIZE=1><LI>Don’t want a true exhibition but want to offer more ‘services’ to delegates. MBC or similar book seller is good example of a service. Others might be: </LI>

<UL>
<LI>Demos by tools vendors of their tools? </LI>
<LI>Software seller such as Grey Matter? </LI>
<LI>???</LI></UL>

<LI>Should spell out to sponsors the reasons for sponsoring </LI>

<UL>
<LI>Marketing opportunity to the wider community, but not necessarily to the conference itself – send techies, not marketing people? </LI>
<LI>Main attraction of the conference itself is networking and recruiting </LI>
<LI>Cheap way to send lots of people </LI>
<B><LI>Need proper sponsor pack that can be downloaded from the web that spells out benefits, costs, etc.</LI></UL>

</B><LI>Potential sponsors: </LI>

<UL>
<LI>PrismTech </LI>
<LI>Versant </LI>
<LI>Lucent – <B>Ewan to test the water </LI>
</B><LI>Connextra </LI>
<LI>BBST</LI></UL>
</UL>

</FONT><B><I><FONT FACE="Arial" SIZE=2><P>Marketing</P>

<UL>
</B></I></FONT><FONT SIZE=1><LI>Widen the reach and style of the marketing </LI>

<UL>
<LI>Article in computer weekly about learning at OT? </LI>
<LI>Wiki pages dedicated to OT (needs some interaction on those pages to demonstrate the kind of conference we are)? </LI>
<LI>Slash.dot? </LI>
<B><LI>IEE and OT mailing lists </LI>
<LI>Identify regional ‘co-ordinators’ for mainland Europe, Scandinavia and the US. Get them to recommend sites and journals to advertise/market into. Give them as first point of contact to find out about what OT is all about. </LI>
<LI>Brochures for: </LI>

<UL>
</B><LI>TOOLs Eastern Europe </LI>
<LI>OOPSLA </LI>
<LI>Eric Leach events </LI>
<LI>SIGS events? </LI>
<LI>UNICOM events?</LI></UL>
</UL>
</UL>

</FONT><B><FONT FACE="Arial" SIZE=4><P>Important Dates</P>

<UL>
</FONT><FONT SIZE=1><LI>CfP out by 1<SUP>st</SUP> July </LI>
<LI>Brochure ready by 1<SUP>st</SUP> September </LI>
<LI>Submission date: 18<SUP>th</SUP> September </LI>
<LI>Programme Review meeting: 6<SUP>th</SUP> October</LI></UL>

</FONT><FONT FACE="Arial" SIZE=4><P>Organisation and Jobs</P>

<UL>
</B></FONT><FONT SIZE=1><LI>Conference chair: Paul </LI>
<LI>Programme chair: Andy </LI>
<LI>Executive: David H, Alan W, Jane C, John N, Helen S </LI>
<LI>Advisors: Bruce A, John D, Peter M, Ewan M, Martine D, Jutta E, Kevlin H, Steve F, Andy L (?), Laura Hill </LI>
<LI>David H – sponsor and speaker co-ordination </LI>
<LI>Jane C – drive effort to capture past process, co-ordinate with new organizers </LI>
<LI>Alan W – set up and administer OT wiki, manage web-site and co-ordinate with new organizers on website issues </LI>
<LI>Martine D (with Jutta E?) set up European regional co-ordinators </LI>
<LI>Laura H (with Dave Leibs?) act as US regional co-ordinator</LI></UL>

<P>PD – 28/4/00</P></FONT></BODY>
</HTML>
